- [Instructor] As with every framework,
the ability to add external configuration is critical
for the framework to not only be taken seriously,
but to be used in a cloud native,
as well as containerized workloads.
ConfigProperty is the core concept
of this within Quarkus.
It's an annotation to load a property from the environment.
It can be applied to classes,
as well as individual elements within a class,
in order to accomplish grouping.
And there's support for things like profiles
and Quarkus out of the box supports three profiles,
dev, test, and prod,
and we've already seen the dev profile
in the way that we ran Quarkus as dev.
And you can also create dynamic properties
via property extensions using the framework.
Quarkus property system also allows for real time overrides.
These can be modified at startup time,
overriden via the command line for instance,
you can load them from the environment,
or there is also support for YAML,
and YAML support is really valuable
in a Kubernetes environment
where you may want to load them from a config map.
So let's take a look at configuration properties
within our application.
So, we're going to go to our command app again
and I want you to go to source, main, resources,
and open up the application-properties file.
Now this is where we define
all of our configuration properties
that live with the application.
Obviously, not everyone will live with the application
and often times,
you want to override them at run time,
but for now, let's just stick with the basic case
and put it in our application-properties.
So we will call this application.greeting.recipient
and we will set that equal to,
let's call in LinkedIn Learning Students.
So now let's go back to our application,
and you'll see how before we said Hello Students,
well now what I want to do is I want to inject into here
@ConfigProperty, there's a couple elements
that we can put here.
So the first thing that I want to do here
is we're going to put a default value
and our default value is going to be Students.
Now our name is going to be
our application.greeting.recipients.
I'm going to go ahead and copy that over.
So what this says is if the application recipient
is not found,
go ahead and inject students,
otherwise, do your recipient.
Looks like I spelled that wrong,
so let me fix that real quick.
Alright, so now all we have to do
is actually use that property.
So the way that we'll do that
is when we say Hello here,
we will simply add the value of recipient,
but you'll notice I haven't defined that.
So when I do my @ConfigProperty,
I need to tell it where to put it.
So we're going to put it into a string called recipient.
So now as I run my application,
you will see now that I did exit with a zero,
so everything worked fine
and a couple lines up from that,
Hello LinkedIn Learning Students,
and again, that came from the configuration properties.
We can jump back over here
and we can change this again to something like Folks,
and I should be able to just hit Enter here
and have this run again.
And you see now, it changed it to Hello Folks.
Now if I'm running this in the command line,
I could hit Enter to run this again,
what I can't do is that from within this window,
so there are benefits to running things
from within the command line,
but you'll see that I actually had to go restart this
and that's because I'm running it within my ID.
So sometimes running it from the command line is better
because then I can simply hit Enter to restart it,
but in this case, it works just fine,
you'll see that we get Hello Folks now
because that's what we changed this to.
Now, one more test that we want to run,
we're going to actually delete this value
and we will restart our application
and you'll see now it says Hello Students
and it exited with zero
because it fell back to that default value
that was Students.
So we'll just go ahead and put this back in here
and that's all she wrote.